joining us now on the phone is gazi
hammad who's hamas's spokesperson and
member of hamas's political Bureau he's
on the phone from Gaza Mr Hamad thank
you very much for talking to us um can I
get you first to respond to Israel's
prime
minister's comment and message that he
is going to crush Hamas and that this
will be the end of Hamas what do you
respond I think it's is a big joke it's
not the first time not the second time
than 100 time that he repeated all the
time since many years that he want to
crush Hamas and to crush the Bor of the
Hamas I think that the problem is not in
Hamas I think there is What's called the
fian people about 14 million people who
are fighting for freedom I think he's
very solid very crazy when he think that
he can destroy the Palestinian people
Hamas is part of thean people so I think
we are still have this strong now to
fight and to fight and to fight right
until we reach the point of the freedom
and for people I think is dreaming they
think that by military power they can
destroy the Palestinians by some
International pressure but I think they
will fail they will get nothing maybe
now they want to make any kind of
Victory by raising the number of other
people of w people demolishing HS there
the area but I think this will never
give Israel any kind of Victory Israel
is planning as you know sir what many
believe will be a massive ground
invasion of Gaza they've mobilized over
300,000 reservers you say Hamas is ready
to fight how is Hamas preparing for that
how are you going to respond to Israel's
military might when so many of your
Fighters have already been
killed look uh first of all we are not
afraid of We Are Not Afraid uh is ever
since 194 till now they committed the
crimes they inv
the a strikes massacr Collective
punishment we are not afraid we are
strong people and we have a strong
determination to continue I think in
Gaza even in the W and are ready to face
the isra cation Invasion we have a lot
of Fighters a lot of people who are want
to support us I think even people in the
borders in Jordan in Lebanon in
everywhere I think they want to come
here and to penetrate the borders and to
come to fight with us I think Gaza is
not is not a garden is not a B for isra
I think it is very clly for them a
bigest price are you expecting support
from
outside uh I'm sorry to say that the
position of the governments is is very
bad the International Community is very
bad I think they give kind of umbrella
and leg legitimacy for the cles of
Israel I I I I just hear about status
but nothing is done on the ground uh but
I think that we only on the and God help
us and second on our people I think our
people is very strong and they have the
ability and the capacity to support the
Palestinian
resistance I think Israel Israel is very
country you know since the beginning of
this operation we sent just 400 fighters
who succeed to to to to this destroy the
image of Israel the security of Israel
the intelligence of Israel that is all
the time is a super power I think that I
think the
vict ra number
ofs homes that's all but what is the end
game for Hamas here what do you do you
want to see things look like when this
is over the understand the world to
understand that there is occupation
occupation is a source of all kinds of
evils pain tragedy killing instability
we want to get the attention of the
world that these people are living under
for long time we want to put we want to
for Thea for 17 years living like slaves
we want to stop building in
stor people we want all to understand
it's the longest the brutal ucation in
the world why commun
support financially military Poli
against Russia
certainly Al for certainly Mr uh gazi
hammad this has put the spotlight once
again on the occupation the Israeli
occupation and the suffering of
Palestinians in Gaza and the occupied
territories but it has however also put
the spotlight on Hamas and what some
would describe as Hamas brutal tactics
we seen Israeli uh citizens killed Hamas
has taken a number of hostages can you
tell tell me uh about these hostages how
many does Hamas have how are they being
treated because Israel has accused Hamas
of brutally uh killing hostages there
have been some reports of Hamas killing
babies and so on just just just tell to
give us one picture as the Prime
Minister M said give us one picture that
Hamas killed the cians Hamas killed the
children Hamas Ked women kill
so Hamas did not kill any any civilians
no no we we don't kill civilians we
don't kill civilians now theost so the
person India they are fully protected
we everything and protection it is part
of our ethics of our Islam it is not
like the occupation who are who
are torturing our people in the prison
for many many so who are the hostages
then so who are the hostages that Hamas
is holding captive right now and will
you releasee them under what circumstan
I I don't have a specific number and sta
about the but now we as Hamas we have
Tak a decision not to talk about the
hostages or or anything unless they
could that this daily B in GAA is stop
we want now to focus in this big tragedy
in G are deleting fames killing people
we want to stop first this is our
priority now
and second is to allow for humanitarian
Corridor
Anda because now everything is cut here
water electricity Serv everything
hospitals are paralyzed we want to focus
in the in the problems and TR OFA but
the world now all of them are just
concerned about the
about small numbers of of hostages and
they want to protction but they foret
about two and half million people under
targeting now there are negotiations uh
you mentioned the humanitarian situation
Mr hammad there are negotiations
reportedly uh with the Egyptians to open
um the the Border uh the Rafa Crossing
and let people go to Egypt what is the
status of that would civilians be able
to leave Gaza and head to Egypt if this
Israeli bombing campaign continues if
the ground Invasion
happens I I think we still have contact
to the Egyptians with the c with United
Nation
Representatives last yesterday and every
day and they prom us we are working
together and to impose more andde now to
open a to but nothing is done on the
ground I hope that that that
International Comm to open his eyes for
the in Gaza okay but as I said that
nothing is done in the ground real no
people in Gaza could not outside go
inside assistant could not be rich Gaza
so everything is now Mr hammad one last
question if I may before we let you go
what would it take to agree to a truce
right now as you've said it's a people
of Gaza who are suffering the civilian
populations who are under constant
bombardment who have little food left no
water no electricity what does Hamas
what would you agree to in order to
achieve a truce right now at this point
want two things two things to stop add
and attacks on Gaza to stop this daily
this on Gaza to stop this military
strikes on Gaza second point now to open
to open this C to Gaza to for people in
Gaza to receive the
human this is the most important two
things now Mr gazi hammad thank you for
taking the time to talk to us gazi
hammad is the spokesman for Hamas
joining us there on the line from Gaza